SectionsTVFeaturedMore from NBC Follow NBC News The United States has broken another daily record for coronavirus deaths, registering more than 3,100 Covid-19-related fatalities on Wednesday, according to an NBC News tally.Also on Wednesday, the U.S. reported 222,994 coronavirus cases — more than it had ever seen before in a single day.More than 290,000 people have died from the virus across the country since the beginning of the pandemic.As at least 15 U.S. states step up their own efforts to encourage people to take a Covid-19 vaccine, countries across the world are hurtling ahead with unprecedented plans to vaccinate millions of vulnerable adults and frontline healthcare workers.Corky SiemaszkoWalmart said it is getting ready to start distributing the Covid-19 as soon as it's approved, the retail giant’s chief medical officer said.“We have been on quite a journey the last several months, from entering into agreements with the federal government to distribute the vaccine, to preparing our operations and clinical services, all to get ready to be one of the places our customers and associates can receive the vaccine,” Dr. Tom Van Gilder said in a statement. To that end, Van Gilder said, they are making sure the 5,000 plus Walmart and Sam’s Club pharmacies have freezers and enough dry ice to store the doses, nailing down agreements with the states “to be able to support vaccinations where needed,” putting in place a procedure for informing people when they can receive their first and second doses, and making sure employees know all the facts so “they will understand and be ready to receive the vaccine if they choose.”Stefan SykesNewly elected New Hampshire Speaker of the House Richard "Dick" Hinch died of Covid-19 Wednesday, just a week after he was sworn in. The 71-year-old Republican lawmaker’s death was announced by the Attorney General’s Office Thursday. Chief Medical Examiner Dr. Jennie V. Duval determined the cause of death was Covid-19 following an autopsy. New Hampshire Gov. Chris Sununu ordered all flags on public buildings and grounds to fly at half-staff Wednesday.“Speaker Hinch was a fierce defender of the New Hampshire Advantage, a close friend, and a respected public servant,” Sununu said. “His loss will be greatly felt by the people of this state, and I ask Granite Staters to join me in praying for his family during this incredibly difficult time.”Hinch started his seventh term as a state representative in November. Stefan SykesExecutives from major U.S. shipping companies testified Thursday before a Senate panel convened to discuss preparation for the distribution of coronavirus vaccines, expressing confidence that they are ready to the challenges ahead.“We’re all watching the packages, all day long,” said Wesley Wheeler, president of global health care at UPS.Wheeler said packages carrying the vaccine will not only get priority shipping labels, but trucks carrying them will be outfitted with a special GPS device that monitors temperature, light exposure and motion.While the executives touted their company’s preparedness, they also acknowledged the many logistical challenges expected in the process, such as distribution into rural areas, adhering to specific packaging and handling regulations, and the potential breakdown in coordination between their private companies and federal entities. “Our healthcare team has been able to leverage this experience, flex our comprehensive network and work with various stakeholders to build customized solutions to achieve our collective goal — moving Covid-19 vaccine shipments as safely, securely, and as quickly as possible,” said Richard Smith, regional president of the Americas and executive vice president at FedEx Express.Corky SiemaszkoWith Rhode Island currently leading the nation in the number of new Covid-19 cases per capita, Gov. Gina Raimondo has extended the state’s economic “pause” for another week through Dec. 20.That means bars, gyms and recreational venues will remain closed and restaurants will continue to operate but at reduced capacity, Raimondo said.Public health officials had hoped that by shuttering or placing restrictions on these businesses they would be able to slow the expected spike in infections after Thanksgiving. And while the data shows that this has reduced the “mobility” of Rhode Islanders, it’s still not at a rate health officials are comfortable with.“It would be hard to not keep us in some kind of pause, just in light of the data,” Raimondo said earlier this week.Raimondo said that when the pause lifts on Dec. 21, bar areas will still be closed and “social gatherings involving people from different households will remain prohibited.” Houses of worship will continue to be limited to 25 percent capacity or a maximum of 125 people.Gyms and indoor sports facilities will be allowed to reopen, but with a limit of one person per 150 square feet. And while restaurant capacity will increase from 33 percent to 50 percent for indoor dining, only people from the same household will be allowed to sit together.Alicia Victoria LozanoCalifornia public health officials have launched a statewide contact-tracing app that will allow smartphone users to receive notifications if they have been exposed to Covid-19.The app, called CA Notify, uses bluetooth technology to exchange data between devices without revealing the user's identity or location. California residents began receiving set-up prompts on their devices Thursday morning.App users will receive alerts if they were near another person who later tested positive for Covid-19. If an app user tests positive themselves, they will get a verification code to plug into the app, which will then notify other people who were within 6 feet of that person for 15 minutes or more. Personal information will not be shared, state officials said."The process is private, anonymous and secure, and is one of the many tools in the state’s data-driven approach to help reduce the spread," Gov. Gavin Newsom said earlier this week in a statement.pic.twitter.com/8pKdgCXY1zHeidi Przybyla and Monica AlbaWASHINGTON — The chairman of the House select subcommittee on the coronavirus pandemic is demanding more information from top officials in the administration after a career employee at the Centers for Disease Control testified about a political appointee's efforts to "alter or rescind" information considered damaging to President Donald Trump.In a letter to HHS Secretary Alex Azar and CDC Director Robert Redfield, Rep. James Clyburn, D-S.C., writes that the testimony raises "serious concern about what may be deliberate efforts by the Trump Administration to conceal and destroy evidence that senior political appointees interfered with career officials’ response to the coronavirus crisis" at the CDC.The letter reveals that on Monday, Dr. Charlotte Kent, Chief of the Scientific Publications Branch and Editor-in-Chief of the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, stated in closed-door testimony that she had been instructed to destroy an email and that she understood the order came from Redfield.Click here to read the full story.Erika EdwardsPfizer's experimental Covid-19 vaccine is poised to become the first to be authorized for emergency use in the U.S.A group of advisers to the Food and Drug Administration is expected to recommend that the agency authorize the Pfizer vaccine for use by the end of Thursday, after a daylong meeting to discuss its safety and effectiveness.The panel, called the Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee, or VRBPAC, comprises scientists and public health officials independent of the FDA. Its task Thursday is to determine whether to advise the FDA to grant emergency use authorization of the Pfizer vaccine in the U.S.The FDA will then decide in the coming days, based on VRBPAC's vote, whether to issue the authorization.Click here to read the full story.© 2020 NBC UNIVERSAL