Utilizamos cookies, próprios e de terceiros, que o reconhecem e identificam como um usuário único, para garantir a melhor experiência de navegação, personalizar conteúdo e anúncios, e melhorar o desempenho do nosso site e serviços.
Esses Cookies nos permitem coletar alguns dados pessoais sobre você, como sua ID exclusiva atribuída ao seu dispositivo, endereço de IP, tipo de dispositivo e navegador, conteúdos visualizados ou outras ações realizadas usando nossos serviços, país e idioma selecionados, entre outros. Para saber mais sobre nossa política de cookies, acesse link.

Caso não concorde com o uso cookies dessa forma, você deverá ajustar as configurações de seu navegador ou deixar de acessar o nosso site e serviços. Ao continuar com a navegação em nosso site, você aceita o uso de cookies.A Georgia runoff fundraiser, a celebration of women's erotica, some romance banter with Christina Lauren, and much more.By
      
        Arianna Rebolini

    Posted on December 6, 2020, at 9:31 a.m. ET
    Laini Taylor discusses Daughter of Smoke and Bone with Stephanie Perkins — hosted by Anderson's Bookshop, 7 p.m. CT. $10–$43. More info.Kimberly Drew and Jenna Wortham discuss Black Futures with Raquel Willis and Naima Green, showcasing Green's work — copresented by BAM and Greenlight Books, 7 p.m. ET. $15–$50. More info.Sabaa Tahir discusses A Sky Beyond the Storm with Tochi Onyebuchi and Everdeen Mason — hosted by Politics & Prose, 7 p.m. ET. $5–$22.50. More info.Michelle Buteau discusses Survival of the Thickest with Tessa Thompson — hosted by the Strand, 8:30 p.m. ET. $5–$52. More info.Jonathan Daniel Wells discusses The Kidnapping Club: Wall Street, Slavery, and Resistance on the Eve of the Civil War with Rashauna Johnson — cohosted by the Brooklyn Public Library and Center for Brooklyn History, 6:30 p.m. ET. More info.Rachel Mans McKenny (The Butterfly Effect) and Premee Mohamed (Beneath the Rising) discuss their new books — hosted by Mysterious Galaxy, 7 p.m. PT. More info.Danielle Evans (The Office of Historical Corrections) and Laura van den Berg (I Hold a Wolf by the Ears) read from and discuss their latest works — hosted by Prairie Lights, 7 p.m. CT. More info.Jen Atkin discusses Blowing My Way to the Top: How to Break the Rules, Find Your Purpose, and Create the Life and Career You Deserve — hosted by Harper Wave and various bookstores. Atkin chats with Stephanie Shepherd at 7 p.m. PT (more info) and with Marianna Hewitt at 8 p.m. ET (more info). $32.99.Jean Kwok discusses Searching for Sylvie Lee with Rumaan Alam — hosted by An Unlikely Story, 6 p.m. ET. More info.Asha Lemmie discusses Fifty Words for Rain with Adriana Trigiani — streaming on Trigiani's Facebook, 6 p.m. ET. More info.The Green New Deal & Climate Action: a panel discussion with Senator Edward Markey, featuring Joshua Cohen, Robert C. Hockett, and contributors to Boston Review's Climate Action — hosted by Harvard Book Store, 5 p.m. ET. More info.Lavinia Spalding, editor of The Best Women's Travel Writing, Volume 12: True Stories From Around the World, discusses the book with contributors Alia Volz, Eva Holland, Naomi Melati Bishop, and Sivani Babu — hosted by Book Passage, 6 p.m. PT. More info.Rebecca Walker and Lily Diamond discuss What’s Your Story?: A Journal for Everyday Evolution with Tracy McMillan — hosted by Book Soup, 6 p.m. PT. More info.Ernest Cline discusses Ready Player Two — hosted by Brookline Booksmith, 7:30 p.m. ET. $39. More info.Simon Doonan discusses How to Be Yourself: Life-Changing Advice from a Reckless Contrarian — hosted by McNally Jackson, 7 p.m. ET. More info.Julia McKenzie Munemo discusses her memoir, The Book Keeper: A Memoir of Race, Love, and Legacy — hosted by Charis Books & More, 7:30 p.m. ET. More info.Jasmine Aimaq discusses The Opium Prince with Cara Black — hosted by Murder by the Book, 7 p.m. CT. More info.Jamie Rotante discusses Betty and Veronica: The Bond of Friendship with Alex Segura — hosted by Mysterious Galaxy, 7 p.m. PT. More info.Lily King discusses and reads from Writers & Lovers — hosted by Boswell Book Company and Books & Company, 2 p.m. CT. More info.Deesha Philyaw (The Secret Lives of Church Ladies) and Megha Majumdar (A Burning) discuss their books — hosted by the Silver Unicorn Bookstore, 7 p.m. ET. More info.Christina Lauren discusses In a Holidaze and the romance genre with booksellers Amanda Quain and Anne Bright — hosted by One More Page Books, 7 p.m. ET. More info.Pilar Quintana discusses The Bitch with the book's translator, Lisa Dillman — hosted by Tombolo Books, 7 p.m. ET. More info."Turn the Page, Release the Rage: Goodbye to 2020" with conversation and readings from Kaveh Akbar, Cortney Lamar Charleston, Danielle Evans, Melissa Febos, Christopher Gonzales, and Megan Stielstra (browse their books) — presented by Barrelhouse, the Rumpus, and Books Are Magic, 7 p.m. ET. More info.Michael Eric Dyson discusses Long Time Coming: Reckoning With Race in America — hosted by Tattered Cover Bookstore, 5 p.m. MT. $30. More info.Jane Smiley discusses Perestroika in Paris with Rumaan Alam — hosted by the Strand, 7 p.m. ET. $5–$46.95. More info.Rachel Kramer Bussel, editor of Best Women's Erotica of the Year, Volume 6, discusses the book with contributors Evie Bennet, Katrina Jackson, Naima Simone, Mia Hopkins, and Olivia Waite — hosted by Love's Sweet Arrow, 8 p.m. ET. More info.Robyn Crawford discusses A Song For You: My Life With Whitney Houston — hosted by Words Bookstore, 7:30 p.m. ET. More info.Derrick Barnes and Gordon C. James discuss their book I Am Every Good Thing with Jeff Kinney — hosted by An Unlikely Story, 7 p.m. ET. More info.Kimberly Drew and Jenna Wortham discuss Black Futures with Taylor Renee Aldridge — hosted by Source Booksellers, 7 p.m. ET. $47.40. More info.Kenya Hunt discusses Girl Gurl Grrrl: On Womanhood and Belonging in the Age of Black Girl Magic with Ebele Okobi — hosted by the Strand, 6:30 p.m. ET. More info.Writers Against Trump presents a panel in support of the Georgia run-off election, featuring Jericho Brown, Anjali Enjeti, Tayari Jones, and Laurel Snyder, moderated by Carolyn Forché — cosponsored by Avid Bookshop and Books & Books, 2 p.m. ET. More info.Ijeoma Oluo discusses Mediocre: The Dangerous Legacy of White Male America with dream hampton — hosted by Source Booksellers, 6 p.m. ET. $36. More info.Jane Smiley discusses Perestroika in Paris with David Francis — hosted by Book Passage, 4 p.m. PT. More info.Arianna Rebolini is the books editor for BuzzFeed News and is based in New York. Contact Arianna Rebolini at arianna.rebolini@buzzfeed.com.Got a confidential tip? Submit it here.Want to see more stories like this? Become a BuzzFeed News member.OopsLooks like your browser doesn't support JavaScript.