Utilizamos cookies, próprios e de terceiros, que o reconhecem e identificam como um usuário único, para garantir a melhor experiência de navegação, personalizar conteúdo e anúncios, e melhorar o desempenho do nosso site e serviços.
Esses Cookies nos permitem coletar alguns dados pessoais sobre você, como sua ID exclusiva atribuída ao seu dispositivo, endereço de IP, tipo de dispositivo e navegador, conteúdos visualizados ou outras ações realizadas usando nossos serviços, país e idioma selecionados, entre outros. Para saber mais sobre nossa política de cookies, acesse link.

Caso não concorde com o uso cookies dessa forma, você deverá ajustar as configurações de seu navegador ou deixar de acessar o nosso site e serviços. Ao continuar com a navegação em nosso site, você aceita o uso de cookies.Here are some of the most interesting and powerful photo stories from across the internet.By
      
        Pia Peterson

    Posted on December 5, 2020, at 2:00 p.m. ET
    This week, it feels as though we might be going backward in time. The president is still lying on Twitter even though we thought that we were past that. The coronavirus is surging to new heights, reaching 4 million new cases in November. Everyone is looking back on 2020, the last four years, and even earlier than that to try to glean some sort of clue of what we might expect as we move forward.Time released its best portraits of 2020, and Magnum Photos did a delightful pictorial history of the trench coat, complete with Lauren Bacall watching Queen Elizabeth II's 1953 inauguration. And Texas Monthly featured a treasure trove of old images scavenged from junk shops and flea markets.We also looked at 15 contemporary Indigenous photographers whose work you should know, and Gillian Laub's traveling exhibit showcases a project on race in Georgia that she's been working on for nearly 20 years. Kieran Dodds has a broad look at redheads in many different countries, and Hannah Kozak looks at the effects of long-term domestic assault through a personal lens — that of her and her mother.Pia Peterson is a photo editor at BuzzFeed News, and is based in Brooklyn.Contact Pia Peterson at pia.peterson@buzzfeed.com.Got a confidential tip? Submit it here.Want to see more stories like this? Become a BuzzFeed News member.OopsLooks like your browser doesn't support JavaScript.