Ghana's President Nana Akufo-Addo has been re-elected after a tightly contested election on Monday. Mr Akufo-Addo obtained 51.6% of the vote, compared with 47.4% won by his main rival, ex-President John Mahama, official results showed. Mr Mahama has not yet conceded defeat. His party has rejected the results, citing alleged irregularities.It was the third time the two politicians had faced each other in a presidential election.  Ghana has a reputation for being one of the most stable democracies in Africa.Results in the parliamentary elections have yet to be announced, but are expected to be very close as well.There are wild celebrations across the country after official results showed Mr Akufo-Addo had won a second term, reports the BBC's Thomas Naadi from the capital, Accra. The president now faces the challenge of tackling high levels of unemployment and boosting the economy, which has been badly hit by the coronavirus pandemic, our reporter adds.Earlier police said there had been 21 cases of election-related violence since Monday, leaving five people dead. This is Ghana's eighth presidential election since its constitution was redrawn in 1992.Mr Mahama was president for four years until 2017, when he was succeeded by President Akufo-Addo. Both contests were determined by small margins.Due to the coronavirus pandemic, the country's usual political rallies were postponed during the race. Instead, President Akufo-Addo's centre-right New Patriotic Party and Mr Mahama's centre-left National Democratic Congress battled on social media, radio and television for much of the election season.However, in the last days of campaigning, caution was thrown to the wind as politicians met crowds of voters. There is now concern that there could be a surge in coronavirus infections.Ghana has reported more than 50,000 Covid-19 infections, with at least 300 people succumbing to the virus.Ghana's election: Six things you should knowGhana election: Fact-checking claims about voting day'Strong possibility' of no trade deal with EU - PMBoris Johnson says negotiations with the EU will continue, but are "not yet there at all".Israel and Morocco agree to normalise relationsplayUS Covid vaccine: Three key questions answered. VideoUS Covid vaccine: Three key questions answeredBrexit trade deal now looking remoteHow everyday life has changed in Wuhan. VideoHow everyday life has changed in WuhanLenny Henry writes TV drama inspired by motherUnlikely friendships forged through CovidGrief: 'Everything looks the same, but it isn't' VideoGrief: 'Everything looks the same, but it isn't'The mask-wearing city that bucked the trendThe Syrians used as 'cannon fodder' in Nagorno-KarabakhI May Destroy You star supports black hair code. VideoI May Destroy You star supports black hair codeWhy 'preppers' are going mainstreamWinter in Iceland turns even more chilling...The past comes back to haunt them in The Valhalla MurdersDaily news briefing direct to your inboxSign up for our newsletterBrandon Bernard: First execution of Trump's final days to go ahead1In Trump’s final days, a rush of federal executions2Brexit: 'Strong possibility' of no trade deal with EU - PM3TV Host Ellen DeGeneres tests positive for Covid-194Morocco latest country to normalise ties with Israel in US-brokered deal5Football star Griezmann severs ties with Huawei over Uighurs6Covid-19: The mask-wearing US city that bucked the trend7Taylor Swift announces second surprise album of 20208Investors mob Airbnb listing giving it $100bn value9Canadians Kovrig and Spavor 'have not been tried' in China10© 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.