A lost song cut from the original The Muppet Christmas Carol movie has been found and reinstated, director Brian Henson has revealed. Henson told BBC Radio 2 he was "excited" and "happy" that When Love Is Gone could again be heard in forthcoming versions of his film.The ballad is sung to a young Scrooge by his fiancée Belle in the 1992 reworking of the classic Dickens story. It was removed as Disney felt it wouldn't appeal to young viewers.In the process of cutting the song for the cinema release they lost the video master and couldn't find the negative either, Henson (son of Muppets creator Jim) previously explained in a 2018 interview. The love song remained in the VHS copies of the film but when DVDs were invented only the cinematic master was available.But two weeks ago, Henson received a call telling him the film was being remastered in 4K and asking him to check  the new version. At that stage, however, he wasn't told the lost piece of film had been found."I was so excited. They actually hid it... so I went down and they said: 'But before we show it to you, we've got something else we want to show you'. And they put up reel four of Christmas Carol with When Love Is Gone," Henson told Radio 2, in a programme that will be broadcast on Christmas Day."I was like, 'No, you did not!' and they said, 'Yes we did! We found it!' I was so happy, I was so happy."They are all set with the full-length version again. I don't know if they are going to get it up on Disney Plus in time for Christmas because they have all these processes but it is coming back, the full-length version is coming back."When Love Is Gone is sung when Scrooge, played by Sir Michael Caine, is taken back to Christmas pasts and sees his younger self with his fiancée Belle, played by Meredith Braun.He remembers the Christmas they broke up because he was more interested in his career. Belle then sings a melancholy ballad about "a time when I was sure that you and I were truly one, that our future was forever and would never come undone…"Henson explained that at the time it was felt the film didn't justify a love ballad "because there is no loving relationship that we can celebrate in that movie... So the love ballad is when Belle is leaving Scrooge".But producer Jeffrey Katzenberg also said he thought the song was too "sophisticated emotionally" and therefore children wouldn't relate to it. "So I reluctantly agreed (to remove it) because he said: 'If you say you're not going to do it, you don't have to do it', and I was like: 'Well now, darn it, I guess I will because you want me to'," Henson said."The agreement was we would remove it from the theatrical release but then put it back in for all of the television and video releases from then on."Whether or not Disney Plus will be showing the restored movie at Christmas remains unknown, said Henson, adding "they can do it but they are going to have to scramble to do it in time".Disney declined the BBC's request for comment.The full interview can be heard in The Muppets at Christmas: It's Time To Play The Music, which will go out on 25 December at 19:00 GMT on BBC Radio 2, presented by OJ Borg.Follow us on Facebook or on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.playThe 'Muppets' director on his more adult version of puppetryDisney updates content warning for racism in classic filmsDisney criticised for filming Mulan in China's Xinjiang provinceYara Shahidi: Who is Disney's new Tinkerbell?Kermit The Frog: 'I try to lead a clean life''Strong possibility' of no trade deal with EU - PMBoris Johnson says negotiations with the EU will continue, but are "not yet there at all".Israel and Morocco agree to normalise relationsplayUS Covid vaccine: Three key questions answered. VideoUS Covid vaccine: Three key questions answeredBrexit trade deal now looking remoteHow everyday life has changed in Wuhan. VideoHow everyday life has changed in WuhanLenny Henry writes TV drama inspired by motherUnlikely friendships forged through CovidGrief: 'Everything looks the same, but it isn't' VideoGrief: 'Everything looks the same, but it isn't'The mask-wearing city that bucked the trendThe Syrians used as 'cannon fodder' in Nagorno-KarabakhI May Destroy You star supports black hair code. VideoI May Destroy You star supports black hair codeWhy 'preppers' are going mainstreamWinter in Iceland turns even more chilling...The past comes back to haunt them in The Valhalla MurdersDaily news briefing direct to your inboxSign up for our newsletterBrandon Bernard: First execution of Trump's final days to go ahead1In Trump’s final days, a rush of federal executions2Brexit: 'Strong possibility' of no trade deal with EU - PM3TV Host Ellen DeGeneres tests positive for Covid-194Morocco latest country to normalise ties with Israel in US-brokered deal5Football star Griezmann severs ties with Huawei over Uighurs6Covid-19: The mask-wearing US city that bucked the trend7Taylor Swift announces second surprise album of 20208Investors mob Airbnb listing giving it $100bn value9Canadians Kovrig and Spavor 'have not been tried' in China10© 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.