Utilizamos cookies, próprios e de terceiros, que o reconhecem e identificam como um usuário único, para garantir a melhor experiência de navegação, personalizar conteúdo e anúncios, e melhorar o desempenho do nosso site e serviços.
Esses Cookies nos permitem coletar alguns dados pessoais sobre você, como sua ID exclusiva atribuída ao seu dispositivo, endereço de IP, tipo de dispositivo e navegador, conteúdos visualizados ou outras ações realizadas usando nossos serviços, país e idioma selecionados, entre outros. Para saber mais sobre nossa política de cookies, acesse link.

Caso não concorde com o uso cookies dessa forma, você deverá ajustar as configurações de seu navegador ou deixar de acessar o nosso site e serviços. Ao continuar com a navegação em nosso site, você aceita o uso de cookies.The second person was a man named William Shakespeare.By
      
        Ade Onibada and 
      
        Azeen Ghorayshi

    Last updated on December 8, 2020, at 10:01 a.m. ET
    
    Posted on December 8, 2020, at 9:17 a.m. ET
    Margaret Keenan, 90, is applauded by staff as she returns to her ward after becoming the first person in the United Kingdom to receive the Pfizer/BioNtech COVID-19 vaccine.Margaret Keenan, a 90-year old woman from Northern Ireland, on Tuesday became the first person to receive the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine outside of clinical trials, marking the start of the UK’s mass vaccination program as announced last week.Keenan, who turns 91 next week, said, “I feel so privileged to be the first person vaccinated against COVID-19. It’s the best early birthday present I could wish for because it means I can finally look forward to spending time with my family and friends in the New Year after being on my own for most of the year.”Meet Maggie: the first person in the world to receive a fully-tested and approved Covid-19 vaccine on the NHS.“I can’t thank May and the NHS staff enough who have looked after me tremendously, and my advice to anyone offered the vaccine is to take it – if I can have it at 90, then you can have it too!”Shortly after the vaccine was administered to Keenan, a second patient, 81-year-old William Shakespeare from Coventry also received his dosage.Recipients of the vaccine are expected to receive a booster jab in 21 days to ensure their protection against the virus, which has killed 1.54 million people globally.Second patient to get the COVID jab at University Hospital Coventry - would you believe it....William Shakespeare from WarwickshireLast month Pfizer announced promising early results from its coronavirus vaccine trial that suggested the drug was safe and 95% effective at blocking COVID-19. The company said no serious side effects have been observed.The results from the trial, which has recruited 43,000 participants, were based on 170 people who got infected with the coronavirus. Of them, 8 were in the half of study participants who received the vaccine and the other 162 had received placebo shots, pointing to a high statistical significance of the shots' effectiveness.With more than 1.7 million confirmed cases of the virus, the rollout of the vaccine has begun with 70 hospitals and comes just over a week after Britain became the first Western country to approve the drug.Appearing on national television, Britain’s health minister Matt Hancock was tearful as he acknowledged the journey to reach the moment.“It’s just been such a tough year for so many people and there’s William Shakespeare putting it so simply for everybody that we can get on with our lives,” Hancock told hosts on Good Morning Britain.Health Secretary Matt Hancock becomes emotional hearing the words of the first man in the world to receive the vaccine, William Shakespeare. 

He tearily says ‘it makes you so proud to be British’.

@piersmorgan| @susannareid100 

Watch the full interview👉https://t.co/fzcHkA6S4kThe US is expected to authorize the Pfizer vaccine this week.On Tuesday, the FDA released its own analysis of Pfizer's clinical trial data, showing that the vaccine was effective regardless of participant race, weight, or age. On Thursday, the FDA's advisory committee will meet to discuss the data and could vote to grant emergency authorization to the vaccine in the US.Ade Onibada is a junior reporter at BuzzFeed and is based in London.Contact Ade Onibada at ade.onibada@buzzfeed.com.Got a confidential tip? Submit it here.Azeen Ghorayshi is a science editor for BuzzFeed News and is based in New York. Contact Azeen Ghorayshi at azeen.ghorayshi@buzzfeed.com.Want to see more stories like this? Become a BuzzFeed News member.OopsLooks like your browser doesn't support JavaScript.