President Donald Trump's personal lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, has revealed in a call to his own radio show that he is being treated for coronavirus with the same drug cocktail his boss received when he was ill with Covid-19.He was admitted to hospital on Sunday after becoming the latest official close to Mr Trump to test positive.Mr Giuliani, 76, told the show he expects to leave hospital on Wednesday.He has been treated with Remdesivir and Dexamethasone, he explained.Mr Trump tweeted on Sunday that his ally, who has been leading the Trump campaign's legal challenges to the November election outcome, had been diagnosed with the virus."I am doing fine. Pretty much all the symptoms are gone. The minute I took the cocktail I felt 100% better. It works very quickly, wow," he told his colleagues on his weekly show with 77 WABC radio from the Medstar Georgetown University Hospital in Washington DC.Mr Trump has strongly praised the experimental combination of drugs he received when he spent three nights in hospital with Covid-19 in October.Dozens of people in Mr Trump's orbit are said to have tested positive for Covid-19 since October.Mr Giuliani said the president's doctor had urged him to go to hospital where he could "get it [Covid-19] over with in three days".Mr Giuliani's son Andrew tweeted that his dad had "improved significantly" adding "I can't seem to get him off the phone for the last day".Thank you for all the prayers for my Dad. He’s improved significantly over the last 48 hours and continues to get better. I can’t get him off the phone for the last day; the man never stops working! https://t.co/lNn1fJspexReferring to his prior diagnosis of prostate cancer, Rudy Giuliani suggested "You don't screw around your whole life because of an illness. I'd rather face risks than live in a basement my whole life." During the election campaign earlier this year, Mr Trump's campaign attacked his rival Joe Biden for "hiding in his basement" during the pandemic.Mr Giuliani, a former mayor of New York City, had been on a cross-country tour in an effort to convince state governments to overturn the results of the November election vote when he contracted the disease.He had criticised face masks and was frequently pictured at indoor events without a face covering.Last Wednesday, President Trump's lawyer appeared at a hearing on alleged election fraud in Michigan where he asked a witness beside him if she would be comfortable removing her face mask."I don't want you to do this if you feel uncomfortable, but would you be comfortable taking your mask off, so we can hear you more clearly?" said Mr Giuliani, who was not wearing a face mask. The witness chose to keep her mask on after asking the panel if she could be heard.The US has recorded more than 15 million cases so far and 285,000 deaths, according to Johns Hopkins University research, which are both global highs. Many parts of the country are seeing peak infections, with record numbers of people in hospital. Correction: an earlier version of this story wrongly stated that Regeneron made Remdesevir, a drug developed by Gilead.Safety data on Pfizer jab released by USRich countries hoarding Covid vaccines, says People's Vaccine AllianceUS election 2020: What legal challenges remain for Trump?'Strong possibility' of no trade deal with EU - PMBoris Johnson says negotiations with the EU will continue, but are "not yet there at all".Israel and Morocco agree to normalise relationsplayUS Covid vaccine: Three key questions answered. VideoUS Covid vaccine: Three key questions answeredBrexit trade deal now looking remoteHow everyday life has changed in Wuhan. VideoHow everyday life has changed in WuhanLenny Henry writes TV drama inspired by motherUnlikely friendships forged through CovidGrief: 'Everything looks the same, but it isn't' VideoGrief: 'Everything looks the same, but it isn't'The mask-wearing city that bucked the trendThe Syrians used as 'cannon fodder' in Nagorno-KarabakhI May Destroy You star supports black hair code. VideoI May Destroy You star supports black hair codeWhy 'preppers' are going mainstreamWinter in Iceland turns even more chilling...The past comes back to haunt them in The Valhalla MurdersDaily news briefing direct to your inboxSign up for our newsletterBrandon Bernard: First execution of Trump's final days to go ahead1In Trump’s final days, a rush of federal executions2Brexit: 'Strong possibility' of no trade deal with EU - PM3TV Host Ellen DeGeneres tests positive for Covid-194Morocco latest country to normalise ties with Israel in US-brokered deal5Football star Griezmann severs ties with Huawei over Uighurs6Covid-19: The mask-wearing US city that bucked the trend7Taylor Swift announces second surprise album of 20208Investors mob Airbnb listing giving it $100bn value9Canadians Kovrig and Spavor 'have not been tried' in China10© 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.