Food and drink supplies in the UK face more disruption after the end of the Brexit transition period than they did from Covid, the industry has said."There are 14 [working] days to go," the Food and Drink Federation's (FDF) chief executive, Ian Wright, told MPs."How on earth can traders prepare in this environment?" he added.Noting that rules for sending goods from Welsh ports to Northern Ireland had only just been published, he said: "It's too late, baby."Uncertainty over a deal and new border checks would make it difficult to guarantee the movement of food through ports without delays, he said.Mr Wright was giving evidence to the Commons business committee on Brexit preparedness.He said there was a big concern that the problems would "erode the confidence of shoppers in the supply chain", adding: "It has done very well over Covid and shoppers will expect the same thing over Brexit, and they may not see it.""We can't be absolutely certain about the movement of food from the EU to the UK from 1 January for two reasons," Mr Wright said."One is checks at the border. The other is tariffs, and the problem with tariffs is, we don't know what they will be."Mr Wright added: "With just 14 working days to go, we have no clue what's going to happen in terms of whether we do or don't face tariffs. "And that isn't just a big imposition. It's a binary choice as to whether you do business in most cases. My members will not know whether they're exporting their products after 1 January, or whether they'll be able to afford to import them and charge the price that the tariff will dictate."What happens next with Brexit? Mr Wright warned that while he expected Kent and Operation Brock to work "reasonably well", he was less confident about ports such as Holyhead, with goods heading to Northern Ireland. He called the Northern Ireland protocol a "complete shambles", adding: "The idea that you can prepare for something as big as the change that's going to happen is ridiculous, it's a massive toll."Mr Wright added that 43% of FDF members who supply Northern Ireland have said they were not going to do so in the first three months of next year.He told MPs that many companies had lost some of their customer base in the EU. "The problem is, if there's any disruption to supply, you lose your customer pretty quickly and you do not get them back," he added.Miles Celic, chief executive of TheCityUK, told the committee that up to a quarter of the UK's financial activity was EU-related and that in the worst-case scenario, about 40% of that business could be lost.However, he added: "We've not seen this vast shift in jobs and activity." Instead, Brexit had acted as a "strategic accelerator", with firms taking action such as restructuring EU-based offices as standalone operations. Even so, he warned: "This all comes ultimately at a cost."Lloyd Mulkerrins of the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders said that if tariffs were levied on parts and finished vehicles, the UK's car industry was likely to see a sales decline of 20% to 30%. Production would decline from as much as 1.6 million to just 800,000, he told the MPs.Brexit: Northern Ireland food supply warnings 'taken seriously'Brexit: PM says 'sweet reason' can get UK and EU to trade dealplayJamie Oliver warns against lowering food standards post-Brexit'Large gaps' remain after crucial Brexit talksA decision on a trade deal is promised by Sunday after talks between the PM and EU chief in Brussels.Hunter Biden under investigation over his taxesTrump hurries executions in final days as presidentBrexit trade deal now looking remoteHow everyday life has changed in Wuhan. VideoHow everyday life has changed in WuhanUnlikely friendships forged through Covid'Everything looks the same, but it isn't' Video'Everything looks the same, but it isn't'The mask-wearing city that bucked the trendThe Syrians used as 'cannon fodder' in Nagorno-KarabakhI May Destroy You star supports black hair code. VideoI May Destroy You star supports black hair codeWhy 'preppers' are going mainstreamBeauty professionals hope for a prettier pictureWinter in Iceland turns even more chilling...The past comes back to haunt them in The Valhalla MurdersDaily news briefing direct to your inboxSign up for our newsletterIn his final days in office, Trump orders series of executions1Elon Musk's Starship prototype makes a big impact2Joe Biden's son Hunter says he is under investigation over taxes3Paolo Rossi, Italy's 1982 World Cup hero, dies aged 644Covid-19: The mask-wearing US city that bucked the trend5The dead professor and the vast pro-India disinformation campaign6More than 900 cars 'pay-it forward' in random act of drive-through kindness7Covid: Canada latest country to approve Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine8Brexit: 'Large gaps' remain after trade talks with Ursula von der Leyen9Artemis: Nasa picks astronauts for new Moon missions10© 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.